---
layout: article
title: "Twist Up"
date: 2014-06-23T16:19:16-04:00
date: 2014-09-30T16:19:16-04:00
categories: projects
excerpt: "Kinect-like game built on a FPGA chip."
tags: []
image:
  feature:
  teaser:
  thumb:
permalink: /projects/twist-up
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/Xwqh13cS4fI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Twist Up was created as a senior capstone project for Engineering Science at the University of Toronto.  Using a Xilinx Virtex-II FPGA board, we created a game based on a vertical version of Twister.

In the normal game mode, the screen displays coloured rectangles that the players must "touch".  A camera captures the movement of the players' hands and feet via colour detection and screen displays the video feed along with gameplay information.  The players must compete with each other to complete their pattern first, and whoever completes the most patterns by the end of the game wins.

Several other game modes were included.  The "Moving" mode slowly moves the rectangles and requires a player to follow them using their hands and feet.  The "Jumping" mode requires a player to use both hands and both feet to complete the pattern (i.e. it requires them to jump).

The design of the system involves a controller that reads frames from the camera, processes the frame, and outputs an overlay over the frame to the screen.  There is a timer module to track gameplay and to determine whether a button/rectangle is pressed.  There is also a module to implement the game logic, which determines whether player has completed the pattern.

This project was awarded second place in the Orbis Innovation Challenge in 2012.

